Exercise 4: From Prototype to Production
========================================

1. Don't overengineer.
2. Always design properly.
3. Minor detail change will ruin your perfect model.
4. Always prototype first.
5. You will only know what you didn't know on the second iteration.
6. There is only budget/time for the first version.
7. The prototype will become production.

This exercise consists of two parts:
 
 1. A project design hand-in, where you explain your plans for networking in the project    
 1. A practical milestone for the project, where you are able to send some custom data structure across a network

You are not expected to have a "final" design, or to implement your design fully. Consider this as a "first draft", or "version 0.1".

Part 1: Network design hand-in
------------------------------

*This part of the exercise should be handed in as a group.*

Produce a reasonably-sized document with considerations on these questions, your proposed solutions, and other reflections on the networking portion of the project:

 - Guarantees about elevators:
   - What should happen if one of the nodes loses its network connection? 
     1) New orders should be independent from disconnection
     2) Function that continously checks connection status
     3) Some sort of reconnection effort with a timeout. 
     4) Throwing a flag so that the rest of the system knows that the elevator is unreachable
     
   - What should happen if one of the nodes loses power for a brief moment?
    1) Function flags that node disconnects
    2) Flags when connection is restored 
    3) Pushes cab calls to order logic
    4) Pulls updated queue
    3) Pulls state/checkpoint
    4) Resumes activity
    
   - What should happen if some unforeseen event causes the elevator to never reach its destination, but communication remains intact?
    1) If it is detected that the elevator is stopped a countdown starts.
    2) When countdown is done, throw a flag
    3) Reshuffle orders between functioning elevators
    
   
 - Guarantees about orders:
   
   - Do all your nodes need to "agree" on an order for it to be accepted? In that case, how is a faulty node handled?
     In the case where elevators gets their queues passed from a central module (our design):
    1) No, in our design there is another module which handles the orders, and an agreement between nodes are not needed.
    
    In the case where the elevators have their own internal memory which includes information about other elevators states and queues:
     1) If a node detects that its version of the system is outdated (e.g. by checking a counter), request an update from the elevator
        with the most recent version.
        
   - How can you be sure that a remote node "agrees" on an order?
    1) The remote node should answer with a confirmation that the order is accepted. Can use checksum to ensure that 
    the information is correct. 
       
   - How do you handle losing packets containing order information between the nodes?
     1) Resend packets. If the message is a defined length/unknown at receivers end it is possible to run error detection.
        Implementation: If no acknowledgement is received within a predetermined time resend a packet. 
     2) We will use UDP
     

 - Do you share the entire state of the current orders, or just the changes as they occur?
    1) We imagine that sharing the entire state is better, as it is easier to detect errors. If we only share the changes we cannot be certain
        that the underlying state is correct. 
  
- For either one: What should happen when an elevator re-joins after having been offline?
    1) Pushes cab calls to order logic
    2) Pulls updated queue
    3) Pulls state/checkpoint
    4) Resumes activity

*Pencil and paper is encouraged! Drawing a diagram/graph of the message pathways between nodes (elevators) will aid in visualizing complexity. 
Drawing the order of messages through time will let you more easily see what happens when communication fails.*
     
 - Topology:
   - What kind of network topology do you want to implement? Peer to peer? Master slave? Circle? Something else?
    We want to implement master/slave. This is because of our module design, which implements a central unit for processing
     orders. 

   - In the case of a master-slave configuration: Do you have only one program, or two (a "master" executable and a "slave")?
     The elevators are the slaves and the order module is the master. There are implemented in different modules. 

    - How do you handle a master node disconnecting?
        We are considering implementing two processes which run in parallel, one as a backup that you can switch to in the
      case where the master node disconnects/crashes. When the node is back up and running it takes the place as the new backup. 
      In our case we would need this to be the order handler process, with the additional information from the checkpoints. 

- Is a slave becoming a master a part of the network module?
  No, the elevators stay as slaves. 

   - In the case of a peer-to-peer configuration:
     - Who decides the order assignment?
     - What happens if someone presses the same button on two panels at once? Is this even a problem?
     
 - Technical implementation and module boundary:
   - Protocols: TCP, UDP, or something else?
     UDP sounds like the best choice. TCP has a 2-minute timeout which has to be handled (source TBD)
     
       - If you are using TCP: How do you know who connects to who?
        - Do you need an initialization phase to set up all the connections?
      - If you are using UDP broadcast: How do you differentiate between messages from different nodes?
        Include the sender as part of the message. 
        
      - If you are using a library or language feature to do the heavy lifting - what is it, and does it satisfy your needs?
       NET package for go. Library that implements the framework for I/O communication including TCP and UDP. We certainly hope so.
        

   - Do you want to build the necessary reliability into the module, or handle that at a higher level?
     We want to implement reliability both on the module level and at system level to ensure that we can handle all types of errors.
     
   - Is detection (and handling) of things like lost messages or lost nodes a part of the network module?
    We have to implement logic around handling network errors and packet loss as UDP does not have this as standard.
     
   - How will you pack and unpack (serialize) data?
     
     - Do you use structs, classes, tuples, lists, ...?
       In our first iteration we will try to use structs, but if we realize that this is bad we will change as we go. 
     - JSON, XML, plain strings, or just plain memcpy?
        TBD.
       
     - Is serialization a part of the network module?
        NET serializes the message for us. 


Part 2: Getting networking started
----------------------------------

By the end of this exercise, you should be able to send some data structure (struct, record, etc) from one machine to another. How you achieve this 
(in terms of network topology, protocol, serialization) does not matter, but you should try to keep it as close to your (preliminary) design as possible.

Some basic network modules already exist for several programming languages. Use whatever you find useful - extend, modify, or delete as you see fit.

 - [C network module](https://github.com/TTK4145/Network-c)
 - [D network module](https://github.com/TTK4145/Network-D)
 - [Go network module](https://github.com/TTK4145/Network-go)
 - [Rust network module](https://github.com/edvardsp/network-rust)
 - [Distributed Erlang](http://erlang.org/doc/reference_manual/distributed.html)
 
Since this is the start of programming your project, you should start using your project repository on GitHub. If you find that this exercise becomes "short", keep working on your design, free-form programming, or move on to the next exercise.
 
### Running from another computer

In order to test networking on the lab, you may find it useful to run your code from multiple machines at once. The best way to do this is to log in remotely. Remember to be nice the people sitting at that computer (don't mess with their files, and so on), and try to avoid using the same ports as them.

 - Logging in:
   - `ssh username@#.#.#.#` where #.#.#.# is the remote IP
 - Copying files between machines:
   - `scp source destination`, with optional flag `-r` for recursive copy (folders)
   - Examples:
     - Copying files *to* remote: `scp -r fileOrFolderAtThisMachine username@#.#.#.#:fileOrFolderAtOtherMachine`
     - Copying files *from* remote: `scp -r username@#.#.#.#:fileOrFolderAtOtherMachine fileOrFolderAtThisMachine`
    
*If you are scripting something to automate any part of this process, remember to **not** include the login password in any files you upload to GitHub (or anywhere else for that matter)*

## Extracurricular

[The Night Watch](https://web.archive.org/web/20140214100538/http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/mickens/thenightwatch.pdf)
*"Systems people discover bugs by waking up and discovering that their first-born children are missing and "ETIMEDOUT" has been written in blood on the wall."*

[The case of the 500-mile email](http://www.ibiblio.org/harris/500milemail.html)
*"We can't send mail farther than 500 miles from here," he repeated. "A little bit more, actually. Call it 520 miles. But no farther."*

[21 Nested Callbacks](http://blog.michellebu.com/2013/03/21-nested-callbacks/)
*"I gathered from these exchanges that programmers have a perpetual competition to see who can claim the most things as 'simple.'"*
